README.md, before:

# joelpittet’s dotfiles

Mathias Bynens’ dotfiles with Cottsers' tweaks and some personal tweaks.

## Notable features

### Others

#### Homebrew formulas

* [z](https://github.com/rupa/z) - A fuzzy way to navigate directories on the command line.
* [git-ftp](https://github.com/resmo/git-ftp) - Deploy to (S)FTP from your local git repositories.

#### Aliases

Adds a bunch of git and drush aliases. Some of these are muscle memory, some will eventually be removed because I never use them.

## Installation

**Warning:** If you want to give these dotfiles a try, you should first fork this repository, review the code, and remove things you don’t want or need. Don’t blindly use my settings unless you know what that entails. Use at your own risk!

### Using Git

You can clone the repository wherever you want. (I like to keep it in `~/dotfiles`.)

```bash
git clone https://github.com/joelpittet/dotfiles.git
cd dotfiles
./brew.sh
# TODO script up a backup and explain stow --adopt .
stow .
```

To update, `cd` into your local `dotfiles` repository and then:

```bash
git pull
```

### Git-free install

To install these dotfiles without Git:

```bash
cd; curl -#L https://github.com/joelpittet/dotfiles/tarball/main | tar -xzv --strip-components 1 --exclude={README.md,.macos,LICENSE.txt}
```

To update later on, just run that command again.

### Specify the `$PATH`

If `~/.path` exists, it will be sourced along with the other files, before any feature testing (such as [detecting which version of `ls` is being used](https://github.com/joelpittet/dotfiles/blob/aff769fd75225d8f2e481185a71d5e05b76002dc/.aliases#L21-L26)) takes place.

Here’s an example `~/.path` file that adds `/usr/local/bin` to the `$PATH`:

```bash
export PATH="/usr/local/bin:$PATH"
```

### Add custom commands without creating a new fork

If `~/.extra` exists, it will be sourced along with the other files. You can use this to add a few custom commands without the need to fork this entire repository, or to add commands you don’t want to commit to a public repository.

My `~/.extra` looks something like this:

```bash
# Git credentials
GIT_AUTHOR_NAME="Joel Pittet"
GIT_COMMITTER_NAME="$GIT_AUTHOR_NAME"
git config --global user.name "$GIT_AUTHOR_NAME"
GIT_AUTHOR_EMAIL="joel@pittet.ca"
GIT_COMMITTER_EMAIL="$GIT_AUTHOR_EMAIL"
git config --global user.email "$GIT_AUTHOR_EMAIL"
```

You could also use `~/.extra` to override settings, functions and aliases from my dotfiles repository. It’s probably better to [fork this repository](https://github.com/joelpittet/dotfiles/fork) instead, though.

### Sensible macOS defaults

When setting up a new Mac, you may want to set some sensible macOS defaults:

```bash
./.macos
```

### Install Homebrew formulae

When setting up a new Mac, you may want to install some common [Homebrew](https://brew.sh/) formulae (after installing Homebrew, of course):

```bash
./brew.sh
```

Some of the functionality of these dotfiles depends on formulae installed by `brew.sh`. If you don’t plan to run `brew.sh`, you should look carefully through the script and manually install any particularly important ones. A good example is Bash/Git completion: the dotfiles use a special version from Homebrew.

## Feedback

[Ping me on Twitter](http://twitter.com/joelpittet).

## Thanks to…

* [Mathias Bynens](http://mathiasbynens.be/) for providing a [great base to work from](https://github.com/mathiasbynens/dotfiles)!

Commit message:

Update the readme to add features like stow

README.md, after:

# joelpittet’s dotfiles

Mathias Bynens’ dotfiles with Cottsers' tweaks and some personal tweaks.

## Notable features

- Uses `zsh`.
- Using `stow` to help manage symlinks to the git repo.


### Others

#### Homebrew formulas

* [z](https://github.com/rupa/z) - A fuzzy way to navigate directories on the command line.

#### Aliases

Adds a bunch of git and drush aliases. Some of these are muscle memory, some will eventually be removed because I never use them.

## Installation

**Warning:** If you want to give these dotfiles a try, you should first fork this repository, review the code, and remove things you don’t want or need. Don’t blindly use my settings unless you know what that entails. Use at your own risk!

### Using Git

You can clone the repository wherever you want. (I like to keep it in `~/dotfiles`.)

```bash
git clone https://github.com/joelpittet/dotfiles.git
cd dotfiles
./brew.sh
# TODO script up a backup and explain stow --adopt .
stow .
```

To update, `cd` into your local `dotfiles` repository and then:

```bash
git pull
```

### Git-free install

To install these dotfiles without Git:

```bash
cd; curl -#L https://github.com/joelpittet/dotfiles/tarball/main | tar -xzv --strip-components 1 --exclude={README.md,.macos,LICENSE.txt}
```

To update later on, just run that command again.

### Specify the `$PATH`

If `~/.path` exists, it will be sourced along with the other files, before any feature testing (such as [detecting which version of `ls` is being used](https://github.com/joelpittet/dotfiles/blob/aff769fd75225d8f2e481185a71d5e05b76002dc/.aliases#L21-L26)) takes place.

Here’s an example `~/.path` file that adds `/usr/local/bin` to the `$PATH`:

```bash
export PATH="/usr/local/bin:$PATH"
```

```bash
# Git credentials
GIT_AUTHOR_NAME="Your Name"
GIT_COMMITTER_NAME="$GIT_AUTHOR_NAME"
git config --global user.name "$GIT_AUTHOR_NAME"
GIT_AUTHOR_EMAIL="YOUR.EMAIL@example.org"
GIT_COMMITTER_EMAIL="$GIT_AUTHOR_EMAIL"
git config --global user.email "$GIT_AUTHOR_EMAIL"
```

You could also use `~/.extra` to override settings, functions and aliases from my dotfiles repository. It’s probably better to [fork this repository](https://github.com/joelpittet/dotfiles/fork) instead, though.

### Sensible macOS defaults

When setting up a new Mac, you may want to set some sensible macOS defaults:

```bash
./.macos
```

### Install Homebrew formulae

When setting up a new Mac, you may want to install some common [Homebrew](https://brew.sh/) formulae (after installing Homebrew, of course):

```bash
./brew.sh
```

Some of the functionality of these dotfiles depends on formulae installed by `brew.sh`. If you don’t plan to run `brew.sh`, you should look carefully through the script and manually install any particularly important ones. A good example is Bash/Git completion: the dotfiles use a special version from Homebrew.

## Feedback

[Ping me on Twitter](http://twitter.com/joelpittet).

## Thanks to…

* [Mathias Bynens](http://mathiasbynens.be/) for providing a [great base to work from](https://github.com/mathiasbynens/dotfiles)!
